# A way to predict nutrition level based on recipe

by Kevin Li (kel062@ucsd.edu) & ShuChang Liu (shl153@ucsd.edu)


---

## Introduction

This project focuses on the recipes and interaction datasets. The recipes dataset contains key information about recipe ingredients, tags, cooking steps, and nutrition, while the interaction dataset includes user reviews and ratings. The central question we are going to explore is: “Can we predict whether a recipe will be rated as healthy, normal, or bad based on its nutrition?” This question is important for promoting health-conscious choices, improving recipe recommendations, making it relevant to users alike.

---

## Cleaning and EDA

<iframe src="assets/file-name.html" width=800 height=400 frameBorder=0></iframe>
---

## Assessment of Missingness

<iframe src="assets/missing-on-n-ingredients.html" width=800 height=400 frameBorder=0></iframe>

| Quarter     |   Count |
|:------------|--------:|
| Fall 2020   |       3 |
| Winter 2021 |       2 |
| Spring 2021 |       6 |
| Summer 2021 |       4 |
| Fall 2021   |      55 |

---

## Hypothesis Testing

We conducted a hypothesis test to evaluate whether the mean protein content significantly differs between recipes categorized as "main-dish" and "appetizers." The null hypothesis posits that the difference in mean protein content between the two categories is due to random chance, while the alternative hypothesis states that the mean protein content for "main-dish" recipes is significantly higher than that of "appetizers." Using a permutation test with 10,000 iterations, we calculated the observed difference in means and compared it to the distribution of differences generated by shuffling category labels.
The results showed an observed difference of approximately 35.8, with a p-value of 0, indicating statistical significance. The histogram of permutation differences confirms that the observed difference lies far outside the null distribution. These results lead us to reject the null hypothesis, concluding that "main-dish" recipes have significantly higher protein content compared to "appetizers." This finding aligns with expectations, as main dishes are generally more protein-rich.

---

## Prediction Problem

Our prediction problem involves determining whether a recipe is healthy, normal, or bad based on its characteristics such as ingredients, tags, and nutritional information. This is a multiclass classification problem, as the response variable (nutrition_score) has three distinct categories. We chose this response variable because it quantifies the overall nutritional quality of recipes, making it central to assessing their healthiness.
The evaluation metric for the model is accuracy, as it provides a straightforward measure of the proportion of correctly classified samples. While metrics like F1-score are valuable for imbalanced datasets, the classes in our dataset are relatively balanced, making accuracy a suitable and interpretable choice. This framing ensures that the model effectively distinguishes between the three health categories, supporting healthier dietary decisions.

___

## Baseline Model




___

## Final Model




___

## Fairness Analysis






